
# Shapes Assignment

## Design choices

### Data structures
- The `Vertex` class stores two glm vectors, the position and the normals.
- The `TriangleShape` class stores 3 vertices. This is later used in a function, `addTriToVertexData`, for code readability, as well as an easy way to reverse the order vertices are being stored into `m_vertexData` (render direction). 

### Base Shape structure & Composition usage: `OpenGLShape`
- Stores `m_radius` for unit-sized shapes
- Stores `m_vertexData` for vertex data to be rendered
- Stores `shapeType` to optimize setting changes, and avoid unnecessary computations
- `addTriToVertexData` adds a triangle object of three vertices, either in the order given or reversed (default parameter is in the order given). 
- `addGridToVertex`. Given a grid of vertices, the function traverses through it in a way that renders all the vectors, splitting them into triangles in the proper order for the correct render orientation. Used by all shapes.
- `buildCircumferenceVertices` is used by both `CylinderShape` and `ConeShape`. This creates a vector of vertices, aligned horizontally in a circle, divided into equal segments. `CubeShape` could also use this for the edge vertices, if a rotation and scaling is applied. 
- `buildCap` is used by both `CylinderShape` and `ConeShape`, to create the cap(s) of the shapes. This calls `buildCapSlice` to create a column of the cap.
- `buildCapSlice` not only builds the caps for Cylinder and Cone shapes, each slice also greatly resembles the shape of Cone sides. This function is reused to render Cone sides. It's also generalized to allow for different vector normals.

### Individual shape similarities
- Each shape takes a similar approach of building an index of vertices, then calling `addGridToVertex` to insert them into `m_vertexData` in the correct order. For most shapes, the distinction between creating the cap(s) and the sides are also made, but for the most part the structure remains similar. A "slice", or column, of the shape is first rendered. Since all slices are mostly the same (similar to an orange), this decreases the complexity of rendering multiple columns. This way, the grid is mostly generated by two columns at a time, iterating through all the rows and accessing the next one, creating triangles through this 2-column rectangle.

### Extra Shapes
- N/A

### Bugs
- N/A

